>> Francesca Sadikin: Hopefully you
are all with me on why building
relationships of trust,
caring about people is important.
But you might wonder how
do you actually do that?
All right, how do I actually make
connections when maybe I'm not so
great with people?
So as someone who has had
problems with socializing before.
I do have some tips.
So again,
first I've mentioned this before, but
building relationships to increase
your opportunities is a long game.
You're not going to see immediate results.
But there are other significant
benefits to starting early and
fostering these connections often.
Some of which is that things will go
wrong, there's gonna be a mistake that
happens, or you're going to need help, and
all of that is just much easier to have
a conversation about when you already have
a good relationship with the other person.
And to be clear,
it's more like humanizing.
People see you as a person,
not just like a shadowless
entity that does work, right?
The other big benefit,
sharing information.
So through these conversations
that you're having,
hopefully you're gaining a lot of
information about maybe the project,
what's happening at your company, maybe
they heard about layoffs or restructuring.
All of this is really good information
cuz it allows you to react faster if
you knew about it before.
And lastly, of course leveraging your
network to find future job opportunities.
Maybe they won't give you a referral, but
if they can give you information about
what it's like to work there or who's a
good contact, just any sort of information
can really make the big difference to
whether you get that position or not.
And strong positive impressions like so
you've worked with someone you did great
five years later you're like you pinged
them again they'll remember that you had
a good working relationship and
they'll continue to help you.
How do you do this a bit more, right?
I really recommend face-to-face time.
Don't just slack them with text messages.
Something about seeing people in person or
with faces actually helps
you humanize each other.
Try to go for repeat interactions.
So if you're on site, I recommend having
lunch with them every so often and
then if your remote scheduling
one on one meetings.
Especially when you're
first getting started,
schedule one on one meetings 30 minutes to
just introduce yourself to everybody and
then meet them like every few months
afterwards, just a little call.
It's really also important to
take a genuine interest in them.
If you don't have that genuine interest,
it's just gonna come across very strange,
and you're not gonna have
the effect that you're looking for.
I use active listening for these, and
don't worry, if you don't know what active
listening is, we're about to cover it.
But some other sample questions that I
have is just try to go beyond the nitty
gritty work details, go work adjacent.
So how they feel about what's
going on in their work or
how they feel about the current company
update, layoffs, restructuring, whatever,
just work adjacent and try to get closer
to learning about them, their thoughts.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Okay,
so I have another story.
This is the last story,
I promise, [LAUGH] so
I mentioned that active listening
was one of my big tips.
You probably didn't know this about me,
and hopefully maybe you can't tell and
how I'm talking right now.
But I used to have really severe social
anxiety to the point where I thought I
was actually an introvert.
This whole time, I actually was
a socially anxious extrovert.
I do like people, I just didn't
know how to talk to them, right?
But the one skill that actually
transformed my socializing skills is
active listening.
So to give you an example of what it
was like before learning the skill,
when I was trying to find my first job,
I was ready to try anything,
including networking events, even though
I usually avoid them like the plague.
Again, because I had no social skills.
And these networking events
were exactly what I thought.
They were horrible for me.
I would start sweating through my
shirt just completely drenched,
my face would turn very red.
I would not know what to do, so
I would just stand awkwardly, around
the groups trying to like figure out how
to come in, and then when I came in,
somehow ask my two questions, don't
know how to continue the conversation.
And then I just had to,
very awkwardly back out of the group.
And every event just left me so
frustrated, and embarrassed,
and just emotionally drained.
I just felt like I didn't
know how to socialize and
wasn't sure if I was
actually Gonna get better.
Fast forward a year, I was able to get a
job as a software engineering consultant.
Now, if you don't know anything about
consulting beyond the technical tasks,
you're also expected to create really
friendly relationships with everyone you
work with.
And as demonstrated in my previous
example, I didn't know how to do that.
But the fear of getting fired finally
pushed me to actually focus on how to
get social skills.
So my sister, knowing me, suggested
a book called Never Split the Difference,
which is about a hostage negotiator
who uses tactical empathy and
active listening to create quick
connections with a hostage taker.
I mean, I guess she was right and
she did know how much help I need,
because that book was amazing.
To be honest,
I only read the first few chapters, but
those first few chapters
are still taking me to today.
Like that's how mind blowing it was for
me.
I learned that connection with
other people does not depend on my
ability to talk well or
ask a bunch of really clever questions.
Instead, I just had to focus
on truly listening and
ensuring that the other person
felt understood and heard.
So I was like, all right,
sounds simple enough let me try it.
At the time, I had this manager who
I had regular one on ones with.
Now, these were supposed to be 30 minute
meetings, but he could barely get through
five minutes with me, because we
always had nothing to talk about.
I had nothing to lose.
I was like, let's try it, right?
So the rules are simple.
I have to start with a genuine desire
to understand the other person, and
then I use some of these active listening
techniques I read about in the book.
So I asked my manager a carefully
chosen open ended question.
And for the first time,
focused entirely on what he was saying.
Instead of just accumulating
a bunch of questions in my head,
I listened to what he was saying.
So if he said something like,
I don't know what that means.
I actually don't know what that means.
Let me ask him.
Tell me more about that.
Or if something was interesting,
I was like, can you explain
a little bit more about that?
I'd love to hear more, right?
And what was once a really painful five
minute meeting turned into several one and
a half hour conversations.
He actually told me that he
doesn't usually share so much, and
really enjoyed our conversation.
He was actually forming
a connection with me.
And that was amazing because that was the
first time I was actually able to do that
with someone.
And I think I was like.
I finally figured out how to socialize and
create authentic connections.
So this realization was mind blowing.
It's so simple yet
no one really teaches you this, and
I applied this with everybody I met,
which quickly grew my careers and
in my personal life, I was able to deepen
the friendships that I already had.
So, this skill is my superpower,
and I want to share it with you.
It's difficult to teach
in a one hour setting.
But I want us to practice the first few
steps and just to get familiar with it.
Remember that the first goal must
be to understand the other person,
a genuine desire to
understand the other person.
Active listening is a technique to
help you understand someone and
help them feel heard.
Without that genuine desire,
people will always know and
it's just gonna come
across as manipulative.
So we're gonna go over our
connection principles and
what active listening actually is.
And then we're gonna put it all together
in our active listening exercise.